CodeBook.md, before:

# Code Book
This Code Book contains an explanation for each variable in the dataTidy dataframe that is created by the script "run_analysis.R" in this repo. The file README.md contains the explanation of how this dataTidy dataframe is created starting from the raw data. Here I report some information from the original documentation (available at https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip) so that the variable explanation makes more sense.

The data are originally coming from experiments that "have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, the 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity were captured at a constant rate of 50Hz." 

In the original documentation it is described how these measurements have been processed:
"The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain."

The variables described in this Code Book are a transformed subset of this latter features vector. For more information as to how that features vector was created is available in the original documentation as referred to above.

___
##### subject
This is the label corresponding to each subject on which the measurements have been performed.    

___

##### activity
This is the label describing the activity that the subject was performing during measurement.   

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationMeanX, timeBodyAccelerationMeanY, timeBodyAccelerationMeanZ
These are the average measurements of linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively.  

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationStdX, timeBodyAccelerationStdY, timeBodyAccelerationStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively.    

___

##### timeGravityAccelerationMeanX, timeGravityAccelerationMeanY, timeGravityAccelerationMeanZ
These are the average measurements of the linear gravity acceleration over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeGravityAccelerationStdX, timeGravityAccelerationStdY, timeGravityAccelerationStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the linear gravity acceleration over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationJerkMeanX, timeBodyAccelerationJerkMeanY, timeBodyAccelerationJerkMeanZ
These are the average measurements of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationJerkStdX, timeBodyAccelerationJerkStdY, timeBodyAccelerationJerkStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityMeanX, timeBodyAngularVelocityMeanY, timeBodyAngularVelocityMeanZ
These are the average body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityStdX, timeBodyAngularVelocityStdY, timeBodyAngularVelocityStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkMeanX, timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkMeanY, timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkMeanZ
These are the average measurements of the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkStdX, timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkStdY, timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the body acceleration.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation of the magnitude of the body acceleration.

___

##### timeGravityAccelerationMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the gravity acceleration.

___

##### timeGravityAccelerationMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation of the magnitude of the gravity acceleration.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationJerkMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationJerkMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the body angular velocity.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the body angular velocity.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkMagnitudeMean
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationMeanX, frequencyBodyAccelerationMeanY, frequencyBodyAccelerationMeanZ
These are the average measurements of linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationStdX, frequencyBodyAccelerationStdY, frequencyBodyAccelerationStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkMeanX, frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkMeanY, frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkMeanZ
These are the average measurements of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkStdX, frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkStdY, frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityMeanX, frequencyBodyAngularVelocityMeanY, frequencyBodyAngularVelocityMeanZ
These are the average measurements of the body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityStdX, frequencyBodyAngularVelocityStdY, frequencyBodyAngularVelocityStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the body acceleration, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation of the magnitude of the body acceleration, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the body angular velocity, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the body angular velocity, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityJerkMagnitudeMean
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityJerkMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity, computed in the frequency domain.

Commit message:

Added line about normalized measurements

CodeBook.md, after:

# Code Book
This Code Book contains an explanation for each variable in the dataTidy dataframe that is created by the script "run_analysis.R" in this repo. The file README.md contains the explanation of how this dataTidy dataframe is created starting from the raw data. Here I report some information from the original documentation (available at https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip) so that the variable explanation makes more sense.

The data are originally coming from experiments that "have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, the 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity were captured at a constant rate of 50Hz." 

In the original documentation it is described how these measurements have been processed:
"The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain."

The variables described in this Code Book are a transformed subset of this latter features vector. For more information as to how that features vector was created is available in the original documentation as referred to above.   

All the measurements have been normalized, therefore each variable of measurement is unitless.

___
##### subject
This is the label corresponding to each subject on which the measurements have been performed.    

___

##### activity
This is the label describing the activity that the subject was performing during measurement.   

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationMeanX, timeBodyAccelerationMeanY, timeBodyAccelerationMeanZ
These are the average measurements of linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively.  

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationStdX, timeBodyAccelerationStdY, timeBodyAccelerationStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively.    

___

##### timeGravityAccelerationMeanX, timeGravityAccelerationMeanY, timeGravityAccelerationMeanZ
These are the average measurements of the linear gravity acceleration over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeGravityAccelerationStdX, timeGravityAccelerationStdY, timeGravityAccelerationStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the linear gravity acceleration over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationJerkMeanX, timeBodyAccelerationJerkMeanY, timeBodyAccelerationJerkMeanZ
These are the average measurements of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationJerkStdX, timeBodyAccelerationJerkStdY, timeBodyAccelerationJerkStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityMeanX, timeBodyAngularVelocityMeanY, timeBodyAngularVelocityMeanZ
These are the average body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityStdX, timeBodyAngularVelocityStdY, timeBodyAngularVelocityStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkMeanX, timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkMeanY, timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkMeanZ
These are the average measurements of the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkStdX, timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkStdY, timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the body acceleration.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation of the magnitude of the body acceleration.

___

##### timeGravityAccelerationMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the gravity acceleration.

___

##### timeGravityAccelerationMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation of the magnitude of the gravity acceleration.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationJerkMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration.

___

##### timeBodyAccelerationJerkMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the body angular velocity.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the body angular velocity.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkMagnitudeMean
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity.

___

##### timeBodyAngularVelocityJerkMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationMeanX, frequencyBodyAccelerationMeanY, frequencyBodyAccelerationMeanZ
These are the average measurements of linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationStdX, frequencyBodyAccelerationStdY, frequencyBodyAccelerationStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkMeanX, frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkMeanY, frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkMeanZ
These are the average measurements of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkStdX, frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkStdY, frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityMeanX, frequencyBodyAngularVelocityMeanY, frequencyBodyAngularVelocityMeanZ
These are the average measurements of the body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityStdX, frequencyBodyAngularVelocityStdY, frequencyBodyAngularVelocityStdZ
These are the average measurements of the standard deviations in the body angular velocity over the three axes, respectively, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the body acceleration, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation of the magnitude of the body acceleration, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the linear body acceleration, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityMagnitudeMean
This is the average magnitude of the body angular velocity, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the body angular velocity, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityJerkMagnitudeMean
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity, computed in the frequency domain.

___

##### frequencyBodyAngularVelocityJerkMagnitudeStd
This is the average measurement of the standard deviation in the magnitude of the Jerk signal computed from the body angular velocity, computed in the frequency domain.
